---
title: Learning Journal - 2023/02/22 & 2023/02/23
description: Summary of top 2-3 topics today.
pubDate: '2023-02-23T08:00:00.000Z'
heroImage: /itemPreview.png
tags:
  - learning-journal
---

## What did you learn or work on today? How does it tie into your goals?

I'm writing this learning journal for two days since I ended up not writing one for 2023-02-22 my goal for this week in general was to get a portfolio/blog off the ground with a CMS set-up in the back to manage the YAML data and assets.

Over these past two days, I chose to spend some time getting acquainted with Astro and TinaCMS in order to adapt them to the set up I wanted. During this process, I ended up changing my starter theme that I got from Astro's [theme](https://astro.build/themes/ "") webpage a number of times as I realized that the first two I experimented with didn't match my needs. For example, the first theme I chose, [AstroPaper](https://astro.build/themes/details/astro-paper/https://astro.build/themes/details/astro-paper/ "") was centered around blogging solely, which at first was appealing but then didn't make sense as I realized I wanted a platform to share my profile, projects and blog.

From there, I found another theme, [Astro Boilerplate](https://astro.build/themes/details/astro-boilerplate/ ""), which fit my needs better, but as I started to familiarize myself with the set-up of this theme, I realized that customizing it was a bit of a pain as they separated out their components into a separate package. For example, if I wanted to make any changes, I had to create my own custom `components` folder and import their components and extend them to modify them. As far as I could tell, they also didn't expose their styling in a more global fashion, which meant that if I wanted to personalize the overall style a bit more, I would have to dig through the codebase more.

Instead, I landed on [Astro Modern Personal Website](https://astro.build/themes/details/modern-personal/ "") which immediately stood out to me because of how it exposed theming in its demo. From there, I noticed it was also responsive thanks to TailwindCSS, and I liked that the components were included directly in the same repo. Making changes proved to be a lot easier because of their repo set-up, and I was able to customize the layout by replacing the sidebar with a toolbar in the header for desktop and making the sidebar mobile only. Doing this helped me learn more about TailwindCSS and DaisyUI, which are two tools that this template uses. I was glad to be able to spend time with these tools are they're tools I hope to incorporate in future front-ends I build.

Finally, I was able to install TinaCMS with this new template after discarding the experimental work from the day before. I also set up post schemas with Tina which sets up expected fields and can preset them as well. This allows me to write posts more efficiently and faster by not having to fiddle with the YAML and it manages my media for me.

The staging version of my blog can currently be seen here: https://staging-blog-kennywlino.vercel.app/

## What are some things you'd like to make special note of?

When I was browsing the React subreddit, I found a link to an awesome article by Robin Wieruch called [React Libraries for 2023](https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-libraries/ "") that shares what are currently some of the most popular libraries for React and JavaScript. I really enjoyed browsing this list as I tend to be someone that gets drawn to all of the shiny new packages out there. However, I also find it hard to figure out why one package may be better or what packages are actually leading at the moment, so seeing someone's opinion on packages for routing, authentication, animation, etc. is nice.

## What are some things you're still curious about?

I think something that I'm curious about recently is [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky ""). I saw it in a few repositories from the Astro themes, and I learned that it's a package used for creating Git hooks. From what I understand, it can be used to check that our code is formatted correctly using ESLint and Prettier at various stages such as commit time.

## What do you plan to work on tomorrow?

Tomorrow, my goal is to finalize my set-up with Tina by making sure that my schemas for plain posts, learning journals, and data structures & algorithms posts all work as expected. I also would like to implement tags as a part of my blog posts as that doesn't come built in with the theme I ended up choosing. Finally, I'd like to fill out the remaining relevant information, like the CV page.
